Command Bus
===========

-  `Introduction <#introduction>`__
-  `Creating Commands <#creating-commands>`__
-  `Dispatching Commands <#dispatching-commands>`__
-  `Queued Commands <#queued-commands>`__
-  `Command Pipeline <#command-pipeline>`__

 ## Introduction

The Laravel command bus provides a convenient method of encapsulating
tasks your application needs to perform into simple, easy to understand
"commands". To help us understand the purpose of commands, let's pretend
we are building an application that allows users to purchase podcasts.

When a user purchases a podcast, there are a variety of things that need
to happen. For example, we may need to charge the user's credit card,
add a record to our database that represents the purchase, and send a
confirmation e-mail of the purchase. Perhaps we also need to perform
some kind of validation as to whether the user is allowed to purchase
podcasts.

We could put all of this logic inside a controller method; however, this
has several disadvantages. The first disadvantage is that our controller
probably handles several other incoming HTTP actions, and including
complicated logic in each controller method will soon bloat our
controller and make it harder to read. Secondly, it is difficult to
re-use the purchase podcast logic outside of the controller context.
Thirdly, it is more difficult to unit-test the command as we must also
generate a stub HTTP request and make a full request to the application
to test the purchase podcast logic.

Instead of putting this logic in the controller, we may choose to
encapsulate it within a "command" object, such as a ``PurchasePodcast``
command.

 ## Creating Commands

The Artisan CLI can generate new command classes using the
``make:command`` command:

::

    php artisan make:command PurchasePodcast

The newly generated class will be placed in the ``app/Commands``
directory. By default, the command contains two methods: the constructor
and the ``handle`` method. Of course, the constructor allows you to pass
any relevant objects to the command, while the ``handle`` method
executes the command. For example:

::

    class PurchasePodcast extends Command implements SelfHandling {

        protected $user, $podcast;

        /**
         * Create a new command instance.
         *
         * @return void
         */
        public function __construct(User $user, Podcast $podcast)
        {
            $this->user = $user;
            $this->podcast = $podcast;
        }

        /**
         * Execute the command.
         *
         * @return void
         */
        public function handle()
        {
            // Handle the logic to purchase the podcast...

            event(new PodcastWasPurchased($this->user, $this->podcast));
        }

    }

The ``handle`` method may also type-hint dependencies, and they will be
automatically injected by the `IoC container </docs/5.0/container>`__.
For example:

::

        /**
         * Execute the command.
         *
         * @return void
         */
        public function handle(BillingGateway $billing)
        {
            // Handle the logic to purchase the podcast...
        }

 ## Dispatching Commands

So, once we have created a command, how do we dispatch it? Of course, we
could call the ``handle`` method directly; however, dispatching the
command through the Laravel "command bus" has several advantages which
we will discuss later.

If you glance at your application's base controller, you will see the
``DispatchesCommands`` trait. This trait allows us to call the
``dispatch`` method from any of our controllers. For example:

::

    public function purchasePodcast($podcastId)
    {
        $this->dispatch(
            new PurchasePodcast(Auth::user(), Podcast::findOrFail($podcastId))
        );
    }

The command bus will take care of executing the command and calling the
IoC container to inject any needed dependencies into the ``handle``
method.

You may add the ``Illuminate\Foundation\Bus\DispatchesCommands`` trait
to any class you wish. If you would like to receive a command bus
instance through the constructor of any of your classes, you may
type-hint the ``Illuminate\Contracts\Bus\Dispatcher`` interface.
Finally, you may also use the ``Bus`` facade to quickly dispatch
commands:

::

        Bus::dispatch(
            new PurchasePodcast(Auth::user(), Podcast::findOrFail($podcastId))
        );

Mapping Command Properties From Requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It is very common to map HTTP request variables into commands. So,
instead of forcing you to do this manually for each request, Laravel
provides some helper methods to make it a cinch. Let's take a look at
the ``dispatchFrom`` method available on the ``DispatchesCommands``
trait:

::

    $this->dispatchFrom('Command\Class\Name', $request);

This method will examine the constructor of the command class it is
given, and then extract variables from the HTTP request (or any other
``ArrayAccess`` object) to fill the needed constructor parameters of the
command. So, if our command class accepts a ``firstName`` variable in
its constructor, the command bus will attempt to pull the ``firstName``
parameter from the HTTP request.

You may also pass an array as the third argument to the ``dispatchFrom``
method. This array will be used to fill any constructor parameters that
are not available on the request:

::

    $this->dispatchFrom('Command\Class\Name', $request, [
        'firstName' => 'Taylor',
    ]);

 ## Queued Commands

The command bus is not just for synchronous jobs that run during the
current request cycle, but also serves as the primary way to build
queued jobs in Laravel. So, how do we instruct command bus to queue our
job for background processing instead of running it synchronously? It's
easy. Firstly, when generating a new command, just add the ``--queued``
flag to the command:

::

    php artisan make:command PurchasePodcast --queued

As you will see, this adds a few more features to the command, namely
the ``Illuminate\Contracts\Queue\ShouldBeQueued`` interface and the
``SerializesModels`` trait. These instruct the command bus to queue the
command, as well as gracefully serialize and deserialize any Eloquent
models your command stores as properties.

If you would like to convert an existing command into a queued command,
simply implement the ``Illuminate\Contracts\Queue\ShouldBeQueued``
interface on the class manually. It contains no methods, and merely
serves as a "marker interface" for the dispatcher.

Then, just write your command normally. When you dispatch it to the bus
that bus will automatically queue the command for background processing.
It doesn't get any easier than that.

For more information on interacting with queued commands, view the full
`queue documentation </docs/5.0/queues>`__.

 ## Command Pipeline

Before a command is dispatched to a handler, you may pass it through
other classes in a "pipeline". Command pipes work just like HTTP
middleware, except for your commands! For example, a command pipe could
wrap the entire command operation within a database transaction, or
simply log its execution.

To add a pipe to your bus, call the ``pipeThrough`` method of the
dispatcher from your ``App\Providers\BusServiceProvider::boot`` method:

::

    $dispatcher->pipeThrough(['UseDatabaseTransactions', 'LogCommand']);

A command pipe is defined with a ``handle`` method, just like a
middleware:

::

    class UseDatabaseTransactions {

        public function handle($command, $next)
        {
            return DB::transaction(function() use ($command, $next)
            {
                return $next($command);
            }
        }

    }

Command pipe classes are resolved through the `IoC
container </docs/5.0/container>`__, so feel free to type-hint any
dependencies you need within their constructors.

You may even define a ``Closure`` as a command pipe:

::

    $dispatcher->pipeThrough([function($command, $next)
    {
        return DB::transaction(function() use ($command, $next)
        {
            return $next($command);
        }
    }]);

